---
title: "How to write a resume (curriculum vitae)  in beginner style."
datePublished: Tue Mar 21 2023 14:42:01 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clfid6q4z000609l4421m3i0t
slug: how-to-write-a-resume-curriculum-vitae-in-beginner-style
cover: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/stock/unsplash/FHnnjk1Yj7Y/upload/dd9c9ced174cc3935cd274b67c55b5a5.jpeg

---

Writing a **Curriculum Vitae (cv)** in a STAR format is a way to provide specific and tangible examples of your experience and achievements in a clear and structured manner. STAR stands for Situation, Task, Action, and Result, and it is a framework that can help you showcase your skills and accomplishments in a way that is easy for potential employers to understand.

Here are some steps to follow when writing a CV in a STAR format:

**1.** Identify your key skills: Start by making a list of the skills that you possess that are relevant to the job you are applying for. This could include technical skills, soft skills, and personal attributes.
    
**2.** Choose relevant examples: For each skill, choose one or two examples from your work experience that demonstrate how you have used that skill successfully. Make sure the examples you choose are relevant to the job you are applying for.
    
**3.** Describe the Situation: Start by describing the situation or challenge you faced. This could be a problem you were asked to solve or a goal you were given to achieve.
    
**4.** Explain the Task: Describe the task you were assigned to address the situation or challenge. This should be specific and focused on the skills you want to highlight.
    
**5.** Outline the Actions you took: Describe the actions you took to address the situation or challenge. This should be a detailed account of what you did, highlighting your skills and expertise.
    
**6.** Describe the Result: Finally, describe the result of your actions. This should be specific and tangible, highlighting the impact of your work.
    
--- 
Example: Here is an example of how to use the STAR format to describe a specific accomplishment on a CV:

***Situation***: As a marketing manager for a software company, I was tasked with increasing website traffic and generating leads.

***Task***: I decided to launch a new PPC campaign to drive more traffic to the website.

***Action***: I worked with a digital marketing agency to create targeted ads and landing pages that were optimized for conversions. I also conducted keyword research to identify high-performing keywords for the campaign.

***Result***: The campaign was successful in increasing website traffic by 50% and generating over 500 new leads in the first month. This helped to boost sales and revenue for the company.

By using the STAR format, you can provide specific and tangible examples of your skills and achievements, which can help you stand out from other candidates and increase your chances of getting the job you want.